# Event Listeners in JavaScript

## Introduction

Event listeners are a fundamental concept in JavaScript that allow you to respond to user interactions and other events that occur in the browser. By attaching event listeners to elements in your web page, you can execute specific functions or code blocks when certain events take place, such as clicking a button, hovering over an element, or submitting a form.

## Event Listeners in Action

To demonstrate the power of event listeners, let's consider the following JavaScript code:

```javascript
// function eventClicked() {
//   console.log("I have clicked on Page");
// }

// document.addEventListener("click", eventClicked);
```

In this code, we define a function called `eventClicked()` that simply logs a message to the console when it is executed. We then attach this function as an event listener to the `document` object, which represents the entire web page. This means that whenever the user clicks anywhere on the page, the `eventClicked()` function will be triggered and the message will be logged to the console.

## Event Object

When an event occurs, such as a click or a mouse movement, the browser creates an event object that contains information about the event. This event object is passed as an argument to the event listener function, allowing you to access details about the event.

For example, the following code snippet demonstrates how to access the target element of an event:

```javascript
// to get information about event
content.addEventListener("click", function (event) {
  console.log(event);
});
```

In this code, we attach an event listener to the `content` element, which could be any element on the page. When the user clicks on the `content` element, the event listener function is executed and the event object is logged to the console. The event object contains various properties, such as `target`, which refers to the element that triggered the event.

## Preventing Default Actions

Certain events, such as clicking on a link, have default actions associated with them. For instance, clicking on a link usually navigates the user to a new page. However, you can prevent these default actions from occurring by calling the `preventDefault()` method on the event object.

The following code snippet demonstrates how to prevent the default action of a link:

```javascript
//Prevent Default Action
let links = document.querySelectorAll("a");
let thirdLink = links[2];

thirdLink

Generated by [BlackboxAI](https://www.blackbox.ai)
```
